<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Induction</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="induction" epub:type="prologue z3998:scene">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Induction</h2>
			<section id="induction-scene-1" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Before an alehouse on a heath.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td>I’ll pheeze you, in faith.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>A pair of stocks, you rogue!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td>Ye are a baggage: the Slys are no rogues; look in the chronicles; we came in with Richard Conqueror. Therefore <i xml:lang="">paucas pallabris</i>; let the world slide: sessa!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>You will not pay for the glasses you have burst?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td>No, not a denier. Go by, Jeronimy: go to thy cold bed, and warm thee.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hostess</td>
							<td>I know my remedy; I must go fetch the third-borough. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td>Third, or fourth, or fifth borough, I’ll answer him by law: I’ll not budge an inch, boy: let him come, and kindly. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Falls asleep.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Horns winded. Enter a <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</b> from hunting, with his train.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Huntsman, I charge thee, tender well my hounds:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Brach Merriman, the poor cur is emboss’d;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And couple Clowder with the deep-mouth’d brach.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Saw’st thou not, boy, how Silver made it good</span>
									<br/>
									<span>At the hedge-corner, in the coldest fault?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I would not lose the dog for twenty pound.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Huntsman</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Why, Belman is as good as he, my lord;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He cried upon it at the merest loss</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And twice to-day pick’d out the dullest scent:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Trust me, I take him for the better dog.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thou art a fool: if Echo were as fleet,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I would esteem him worth a dozen such.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But sup them well and look unto them all:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To-morrow I intend to hunt again.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Huntsman</td>
							<td>I will, my lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td>What’s here? one dead, or drunk? See, doth he breathe?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Huntsman</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He breathes, my lord. Were he not warm’d with ale,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This were a bed but cold to sleep so soundly.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O monstrous beast! how like a swine he lies!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Grim death, how foul and loathsome is thine image!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sirs, I will practise on this drunken man.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What think you, if he were convey’d to bed,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wrapp’d in sweet clothes, rings put upon his fingers,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A most delicious banquet by his bed,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And brave attendants near him when he wakes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Would not the beggar then forget himself?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Huntsman</td>
							<td>Believe me, lord, I think he cannot choose.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Huntsman</td>
							<td>It would seem strange unto him when he waked.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Even as a flattering dream or worthless fancy.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Then take him up and manage well the jest:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Carry him gently to my fairest chamber</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And hang it round with all my wanton pictures:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Balm his foul head in warm distilled waters</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And burn sweet wood to make the lodging sweet:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Procure me music ready when he wakes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To make a dulcet and a heavenly sound;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And if he chance to speak, be ready straight</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And with a low submissive reverence</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Say “What is it your honour will command?”</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let one attend him with a silver basin</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Full of rose-water and bestrew’d with flowers;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Another bear the ewer, the third a diaper,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And say “Will’t please your lordship cool your hands?”</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Some one be ready with a costly suit</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And ask him what apparel he will wear;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Another tell him of his hounds and horse,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And that his lady mourns at his disease:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Persuade him that he hath been lunatic;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And when he says he is, say that he dreams,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For he is nothing but a mighty lord.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This do and do it kindly, gentle sirs:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It will be pastime passing excellent,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If it be husbanded with modesty.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Huntsman</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>My lord, I warrant you we will play our part,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As he shall think by our true diligence</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He is no less than what we say he is.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Take him up gently and to bed with him;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And each one to his office when he wakes, <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Some bear out <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</b>. A trumpet sounds.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sirrah, go see what trumpet ’tis that sounds: <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Servingman</b>.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Belike, some noble gentleman that means,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Travelling some journey, to repose him here.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Servingman</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>How now! who is it?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Servant</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>An’t please your honour, players</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That offer service to your lordship.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td>Bid them come near.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Players</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>Now, fellows, you are welcome.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Players</td>
							<td>We thank your honour.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td>Do you intend to stay with me to-night?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">A Player</td>
							<td>So please your lordship to accept our duty.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>With all my heart. This fellow I remember,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Since once he play’d a farmer’s eldest son:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>’Twas where you woo’d the gentlewoman so well:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I have forgot your name; but, sure, that part</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Was aptly fitted and naturally perform’d.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">A Player</td>
							<td>I think ’twas Soto that your honour means.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>’Tis very true: thou didst it excellent.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Well, you are come to me in a happy time;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The rather for I have some sport in hand</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wherein your cunning can assist me much.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>There is a lord will hear you play to-night:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But I am doubtful of your modesties;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Lest over-eyeing of his odd behavior⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For yet his honour never heard a play⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You break into some merry passion</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And so offend him; for I tell you, sirs,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If you should smile he grows impatient.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">A Player</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Fear not, my lord: we can contain ourselves,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Were he the veriest antic in the world.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Go, sirrah, take them to the buttery,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And give them friendly welcome every one:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let them want nothing that my house affords. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit one with the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Players</b>.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sirrah, go you to Barthol’mew my page,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And see him dress’d in all suits like a lady:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That done, conduct him to the drunkard’s chamber;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And call him “madam,” do him obeisance.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Tell him from me, as he will win my love,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He bear himself with honourable action,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Such as he hath observed in noble ladies</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Unto their lords, by them accomplished:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Such duty to the drunkard let him do</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With soft low tongue and lowly courtesy,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And say “What is’t your honour will command,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wherein your lady and your humble wife</span>
									<br/>
									<span>May show her duty and make known her love?”</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And then with kind embracements, tempting kisses,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And with declining head into his bosom,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Bid him shed tears, as being overjoy’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To see her noble lord restored to health,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who for this seven years hath esteemed him</span>
									<br/>
									<span>No better than a poor and loathsome beggar:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And if the boy have not a woman’s gift</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To rain a shower of commanded tears,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>An onion will do well for such a shift,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which in a napkin being close convey’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Shall in despite enforce a watery eye.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>See this dispatch’d with all the haste thou canst:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Anon I’ll give thee more instructions. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit a <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Servingman</b>.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>I know the boy will well usurp the grace,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Voice, gait and action of a gentlewoman:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I long to hear him call the drunkard husband,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And how my men will stay themselves from laughter</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When they do homage to this simple peasant.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I’ll in to counsel them; haply my presence</span>
									<br/>
									<span>May well abate the over-merry spleen</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which otherwise would grow into extremes. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="induction-scene-2" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
				</h3>
				<p>A bedchamber in the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord’s</b> house.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter aloft <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</b>, with Attendants; some with apparel, others with basin and ewer and other appurtenances; and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td>For God’s sake, a pot of small ale.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Servant</td>
							<td>Will’t please your lordship drink a cup of sack?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Servant</td>
							<td>Will’t please your honour taste of these conserves?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Servant</td>
							<td>What raiment will your honour wear to-day?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td>I am Christophero Sly; call not me “honour” nor “lordship:” I ne’er drank sack in my life; and if you give me any conserves, give me conserves of beef: ne’er ask me what raiment I’ll wear; for I have no more doublets than backs, no more stockings than legs, nor no more shoes than feet; nay, sometimes more feet than shoes, or such shoes as my toes look through the over-leather.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Heaven cease this idle humour in your honour!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O, that a mighty man of such descent,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of such possessions and so high esteem,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Should be infused with so foul a spirit!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td>What, would you make me mad? Am not I Christopher Sly, old Sly’s son of Burton-heath, by birth a pedlar, by education a card-maker, by transmutation a bear-herd, and now by present profession a tinker? Ask Marian Hacket, the fat ale-wife of Wincot, if she know me not: if she say I am not fourteen pence on the score for sheer ale, score me up for the lyingest knave in Christendom. What! I am not bestraught: here’s⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Servant</td>
							<td>O, this it is that makes your lady mourn!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Servant</td>
							<td>O, this is it that makes your servants droop!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Hence comes it that your kindred shuns your house,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As beaten hence by your strange lunacy.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O noble lord, bethink thee of thy birth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Call home thy ancient thoughts from banishment</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And banish hence these abject lowly dreams.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Look how thy servants do attend on thee,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Each in his office ready at thy beck.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wilt thou have music? hark! Apollo plays <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Music.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>And twenty caged nightingales do sing:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or wilt thou sleep? we’ll have thee to a couch</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Softer and sweeter than the lustful bed</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On purpose trimm’d up for Semiramis.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Say thou wilt walk; we will bestrew the ground:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or wilt thou ride? thy horses shall be trapp’d,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Their harness studded all with gold and pearl.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Dost thou love hawking? thou hast hawks will soar</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Above the morning lark: or wilt thou hunt?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thy hounds shall make the welkin answer them</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And fetch shrill echoes from the hollow earth.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Servant</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Say thou wilt course; thy greyhounds are as swift</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As breathed stags, ay, fleeter than the roe.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Servant</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Dost thou love pictures? we will fetch thee straight</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Adonis painted by a running brook,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And Cytherea all in sedges hid,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which seem to move and wanton with her breath,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Even as the waving sedges play with wind.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>We’ll show thee Io as she was a maid,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And how she was beguiled and surprised,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As lively painted as the deed was done.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Servant</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Or Daphne roaming through a thorny wood,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Scratching her legs that one shall swear she bleeds,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And at that sight shall sad Apollo weep,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So workmanly the blood and tears are drawn.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thou art a lord and nothing but a lord:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou hast a lady far more beautiful</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than any woman in this waning age.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Servant</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And till the tears that she hath shed for thee</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Like envious floods o’er-run her lovely face,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>She was the fairest creature in the world;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And yet she is inferior to none.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Am I a lord? and have I such a lady?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or do I dream? or have I dream’d till now?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I do not sleep: I see, I hear, I speak;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I smell sweet savours and I feel soft things:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon my life, I am a lord indeed</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And not a tinker nor Christophero Sly.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Well, bring our lady hither to our sight;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And once again, a pot o’ the smallest ale.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Servant</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Will’t please your mightiness to wash your hands?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O, how we joy to see your wit restored!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O, that once more you knew but what you are!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>These fifteen years you have been in a dream;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or when you waked, so waked as if you slept.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>These fifteen years! by my fay, a goodly nap.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But did I never speak of all that time?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Servant</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, yes, my lord, but very idle words:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For though you lay here in this goodly chamber,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet would you say ye were beaten out of door;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And rail upon the hostess of the house;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And say you would present her at the leet,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Because she brought stone jugs and no seal’d quarts:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sometimes you would call out for Cicely Hacket.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td>Ay, the woman’s maid of the house.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Servant</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Why, sir, you know no house nor no such maid,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nor no such men as you have reckon’d up,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As Stephen Sly and did John Naps of Greece</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And Peter Turph and Henry Pimpernell</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And twenty more such names and men as these</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which never were nor no man ever saw.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td>Now Lord be thanked for my good amends!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">All</td>
							<td>Amen.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td>I thank thee: thou shalt not lose by it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter the <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Page</b> as a lady, with attendants.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Page</td>
							<td>How fares my noble lord?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Marry, I fare well; for here is cheer enough.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where is my wife?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Page</td>
							<td>Here, noble lord: what is thy will with her?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Are you my wife and will not call me husband?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My men should call me “lord:” I am your goodman.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Page</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>My husband and my lord, my lord and husband;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I am your wife in all obedience.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td>I know it well. What must I call her?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td>Madam.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td>Al’ce madam, or Joan madam?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td>“Madam,” and nothing else: so lords call ladies.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Madam wife, they say that I have dream’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And slept above some fifteen year or more.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Page</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Ay, and the time seems thirty unto me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Being all this time abandon’d from your bed.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>’Tis much. Servants, leave me and her alone.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Madam, undress you and come now to bed.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Page</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thrice-noble lord, let me entreat of you</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To pardon me yet for a night or two,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or, if not so, until the sun be set:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For your physicians have expressly charged,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In peril to incur your former malady,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That I should yet absent me from your bed:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I hope this reason stands for my excuse.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td>Ay, it stands so that I may hardly tarry so long. But I would be loath to fall into my dreams again: I will therefore tarry in despite of the flesh and the blood.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter a <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Messenger</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Messenger</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Your honour’s players, heating your amendment,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Are come to play a pleasant comedy;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For so your doctors hold it very meet,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Seeing too much sadness hath congeal’d your blood,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And melancholy is the nurse of frenzy:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Therefore they thought it good you hear a play</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And frame your mind to mirth and merriment,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which bars a thousand harms and lengthens life.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td>Marry, I will, let them play it. Is not a comonty a Christmas gambold or a tumbling-trick?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Page</td>
							<td>No, my good lord; it is more pleasing stuff.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td>What, household stuff?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Page</td>
							<td>It is a kind of history.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sly</td>
							<td>Well, we’ll see’t. Come, madam wife, sit by my side and let the world slip: we shall ne’er be younger. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Flourish.</i></td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
